Rework logging and reporting problems (#865)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/ref_utilities-for-collecting-log-information.adoc

[id="Utilities_for_Collecting_Log_Information_{context}"]
= Utilities for Collecting Log Information

You can collect information from log files to troubleshoot {Project}.

ifdef::foreman-el,katello,satellite[]
sosreport::
The `sosreport` command collects configuration and diagnostic information from a Linux system, such as the running Kernel version, loaded modules, running services, and system and service configuration files.
This output is stored in a tar file.

> By default, the output tar file is located at `/var/tmp/__sosreport-XXX-20171002230919.tar.xz__`.

Author: Yes. Combined both sentences/paragraphs.

For more information, run `sosreport --help` or see https://access.redhat.com/solutions/3592[_What is a sosreport and how can I create one?_].
endif::[]

ifdef::foreman-deb,orcharhino[]
foreman-debug::
The `foreman-debug` command collects configuration and log file data for {ProjectName}, its back-end services, and system information.
This information is collected and written to a tar file.
By default, the output tar file is located at `/tmp/__foreman-debug-xxx.tar.xz__`.

Additionally, the `foreman-debug` command exports tasks run during the last 60 days.
By default, the output tar file is located at `/tmp/__task-export-xxx.tar.xz__`.
If the file is missing, see the file `/tmp/task-export.log` to learn why task export was unsuccessful.
There is no timeout when running this command.
endif::[]

ifdef::foreman-deb[]
For more information, run `foreman-debug -h`.
endif::[]
ifdef::orcharhino[]
For more information, run `orcharhino-debug -h`.
endif::[]

[IMPORTANT]
====
ifdef::foreman-el,katello,satellite[]
`sosreport` removes security information such as passwords, tokens, and keys while collecting information.
endif::[]
ifdef::foreman-deb,orcharhino[]

> `foreman-debug` removes security information such as passwords, tokens, and keys while collecting information.

Author: Applied your second suggestion. 👍

By default, the output tar file is located at `/tmp/__task-export-xxx.tar.xz__`.
If the file is missing, see the file `/tmp/task-export.log` to learn why task export was unsuccessful.

ifndef::orcharhino[]
For more information, run `foreman-debug -h`.
endif::[]
ifdef::orcharhino[]
For more information, run `orcharhino-debug -h`.
endif::[]

There is no timeout when running this command.
ifdef::satellite[]

> |`sosreport` |The `sosreport` command is a tool that collects configuration and diagnostic information from a Red{nbsp}Hat Enterprise{nbsp}Linux system, such as the running kernel version, loaded modules, and system and service configuration files.
> The command also runs external programs (for example: `foreman-debug -g`) to collect {Project}-specific information, and stores this output in a tar file.

Reviewer: I started with this since the example is no longer correct. Now I'm wondering if we can't simplify this to:
```suggestion
|`sosreport` |The `sosreport` command is a tool that collects configuration and diagnostic information from a Linux system, such as the running kernel version, loaded modules, running services, and system and service configuration files. This output is stored in a tar file.
```

Author: Applied.

By default, the output tar file is located at `/tmp/__task-export-xxx.tar.xz__`.
If the file is missing, see the file `/tmp/task-export.log` to learn why task export was unsuccessful.

ifndef::orcharhino[]
For more information, run `foreman-debug -h`.
endif::[]
ifdef::orcharhino[]
For more information, run `orcharhino-debug -h`.
endif::[]

There is no timeout when running this command.

> ifdef::satellite[]

Reviewer: `sosreport` works on EL7 & EL8(.5). IMHO it is the recommended tool there, also for upstream. On Debian the version is too old and the needed bugfixes aren't in. So IMHO this should be:
```suggestion
ifdef::foreman-el,katello,satellite[]
```

Note that long term we want to remove `foreman-debug` altogether.

Author: I could not run `sosreport` on a Forklift. Does this require a plug-in? Is it installed on Foreman by default?

Reviewer: It's a separate package. I don't think we install it by default but it's included in RHEL and CentOS repositories (and I assume other RHEL rebuilds do the same thing).

Author: OK, apparently the package is called `sos` and provides the command `sosreport`.

|`sosreport` |The `sosreport` command is a tool that collects configuration and diagnostic information from a Red{nbsp}Hat Enterprise{nbsp}Linux system, such as the running kernel version, loaded modules, and system and service configuration files.
The command also runs external programs (for example: `foreman-debug -g`) to collect {Project}-specific information, and stores this output in a tar file.

By default, the output tar file is located at `/var/tmp/__sosreport-XXX-20171002230919.tar.xz__`.
For more information, run `sosreport --help` or see https://access.redhat.com/solutions/3592[_What is a sosreport and how can I create one?_].

> 
> The `sosreport` command calls the `foreman-debug -g` and times out after 500 seconds.
> If your {ProjectServer} has large log files or many {Project} tasks, support engineers may require the output of `sosreport` and `foreman-debug` when you open a support case.

Reviewer: This hasn't been true since https://github.com/commits/7a44309f95325fa35b67d44866a358a550957c2a
```suggestion
```

Author: I cannot find the linked commit, but I've removed the section accordingly.

Reviewer: I ran the wrong command (`hub browse -c commits/7a44309f95325fa35b67d44866a358a550957c2a` instead of `hub browse -c -- commit/7a44309f95325fa35b67d44866a358a550957c2a`). The real URL is:
https://github.com/sosreport/sos/commit/7a44309f95325fa35b67d44866a358a550957c2a

endif::[]
|===

[IMPORTANT]
====
ifndef::satellite[]
`foreman-debug` removes security information such as passwords, tokens, and keys while collecting information.
endif::[]

> ifdef::satellite[]

Reviewer: Please adjust these ifdefs to match as suggested above.

Author: Applied.
